# Loan-Status-Prediction
We aim to decrease loss of interest of investors and keep up the reputation of P2P. We firstly apply logistic regression on the training set to forecast loan status of debtors, focus on true positive rate to avoid high ratio of bad loans in the lending club system. Then we apply multiple linear regression to forecast their total payments if they do not fully pay their loan. During this process, we also try several methods to solve potential problems in the dataset and evaluate these models’ performance through the test set.

We found the dataset on Lending Club website (https://www.lendingclub.com/info/download-data.action). In our raw datasets, there are 42,532 instances and 41 attributes. It contains information on credit grade, annual income, home ownership, total payment, purpose, loan status, etc. After removing uninformative attributes, such as ID number and address, our dataset contains 25 attributes. There is no guarantee that the method with the lowest training MSE will also have the lowest test MSE. Sometimes a model has a relatively small training MSE, but a large test MSE because of overfitting. So, it is not appropriate to evaluate a model by training MSE. To avoid this situation, we need to split dataset.
Using stratified sampling, we now split our dataset into a training set, containing 37202 observations, and a test set, containing the remaining 5189 observations. We fit a model on the training set and then evaluate this model on the test set.
Our project aims to capture debtors who won’t fully pay their loan and their total payments. Firstly, we fit a logistic regression model on the training data to predict whether a debtor will fully pay its loan and evaluate its performance on the test data. Secondly, we fit a linear regression model to predict the total payment they would pay and evaluate its performance by test MSE.

